# 5 Longest Palindromic Substring

In this problem, I implement Manacher algorithm to calculate maximum substring centering each character. The time complexity and space complexity are both O(n).

Manarch algorithm tricky use the structural properties of palindrome string: if a palindrome consist of odd number of characters, centering one character, then the right part of the centering is exactly the same as the left part. Therefore we can use the calculated information of one part (left part) to simplify the calculation of the other part (right part) to aviod repeated calculations.

Insert a special separator (like "#", needed to make sure the target string do not contian separator charactor) at begining, ending and between every two characters of target string. Construct an array P (or LPS) to store the length of longest palindromic substring centering in current position. Using r to indicate the right boundary of considering, it related of one palindromic substring, and variable c indicate the centering of the rightmost palindromic substring. When calculating P[i], if i < r (it means i is under considering under current information), find the mirror position i'=2*c-i of i take c as a mirror. Remeber the left part is exactly same as the right part. Therefore, if P[i'] < r - i, it means the palindromic substring does not exceed the boundary of the substring centering c, and P[i] facing the same situation of P[i'], so P[i] = P[i']; If P[i'] >= r - i, then the minimum value of P[i] is r - i. To confirm the P[i], we need check s[r+1] and further to find the longest palindromic substring centering i. In this process, we continuing move r to the right, considering each position with constant number of times. When processing P[i], we considering constant number of times. Therefore the time complexity is O(n).